The portfolio analysis, which is also known as a workload or cloud decision model is composed of a set of thirty (30) objective criteria.  It is a proven model that was initially created and used by Microsoft's Core Services Engineering (aka Microsoft IT) team to drive cloud adoption.  It has since been used with customers around the world to help them migrate their workloads to the cloud and prioritize their investments. 

The model is derived from Gartner's Decision Point for Selecting an Application's Cloud Migration Strategy using a Five R's Strategy of Rehost, Refactor, Revise, Rebuild, Replace1.  As a workload is assessed, results are generated and then mapped against a quadrant based on degree of benefits (value) and ease of migration (complexity). 

This, in conjunction with the organization's cloud strategy and desired business outcomes will determine where a workload "should" be placed. 

The objective of the assessment is to enable decision makers to optimize the effectiveness and value delivered by application migration strategies. The model incorporates both business and IT criteria so that the application migration priorities are aligned with the enterprise's business and IT objectives. It helps to facilitate collaboration between the business and IT to prioritize technology investments and determine which applications and workloads have the highest cloud migration potential. 

 

Machine generated alternative text:
Workload 
Performance 
Architecture 
Financial 
Risk 
Operations 
Security 
Activities and associated cloud benefits 
Rebuild 
(PaaS) 
Decision 
framework 
Replace (SaaS) 
Rebuild (PaaS) 
Rehost (laaS) 
Refactor (Hybrid) 
Rehost 
(laas) 
Operational 
Degree Of Benefits 
Replace 
(Saas) 
Strategic 
 

 

 

 

Top-down portfolio analysis 

The top-down assessment method provides a strategic approach, driven by planning and your detailed 

analysis and modernization needs. 

 

Machine generated alternative text:
Activities and Associated Cloud Benefits 
Evaluation Aspects 
• Workload 
• Architecture 
• Financial 
• Risk 
• Operations 
• Security 
Replace (SaaS) 
Current State Rebuild (PaaS) 
Assessment 
Rehost (laaS) 
Refactor (Hybrid) 
6 
> 
Rehost 
(laaS) 
Operational 
Rebuild 
(PaaS) 
Replace 
(SaaS) 
Strategic 
Degree of Benefits 
 

The figure above demonstrates how the top-down assessment first evaluates the security aspects previously 

mentioned, such as the categorization of data (high, medium, or low business impact), compliance, 

sovereignty, and security risk requirements. Then, it assesses the current complexity interface, 

authentication, data structure, latency requirements, and coupling and application life expectancy 

of the architecture. Next, top-down assessment measures the operational requirements of the 

application, such as service levels, integration, maintenance windows, monitoring, and insight among 

others.  

 

When all of those aspects have been analyzed and taken into consideration, the result is a 

score that reflects the relative difficulty to migrate this application to each of the cloud platforms— 

infrastructure as a service (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), and software as a service (SaaS). 

 

Second, the top-down assessment evaluates the financial benefits of the application such as 

operational efficiencies, total cost of ownership (TCO), return on investment, or any other appropriate 

financial metrics. In addition, the assessment also examines the seasonality of the application (are 

there times of the year when demand spikes) and overall compute load. It looks at the types of 

users it supports (casual/expert, always logged on/occasionally, etc.), and the consequent required 

scalability and elasticity required. Finally, the assessment concludes by examining the business 

continuity and resiliency requirements that the application might have as well as dependencies to 

run the application if a disruption of service should occur. 

 

Machine generated alternative text:
Workload 
Peformance 
Security 
Application Profile 
Operations 
Risk 
Arch itecture 
Financial 
Application 
Profile 
These are the relevant attributes of an application 
that impact the benefits and feasibility of cloud 
migration. Each attribute is comprised of criteria 
that is assessed to determine fit to cloud. 
Each criterion is defined as a unique five-point 
scale, where 1 generally means "not a good fit for 
the cloud" and 5 generally means "great fit for the 
cloud." 
Each criterion either characterize ease of 
migration or the degree of benefit that the cloud 
can bring. 
The next sections drill down into each of the criteria shown in the figure above to build the application profile and to provide additional details on how these are scored. 
